README.md, before:

# Springboot Migration Workshop

This is a collection of adventures for automatic remediation based on OpenRewrite.
Each adventure represent a valid option to apply a SpringBoot migration.
It is not expected that you complete all our adventures, but enjoy with the ones 
that are interesting to you because of the technologies that are applied. 

For all the adventures we are going to use different solutions to migrate 
an old version of the [spring-petclinic](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/)
to SpringBoot 3.

## Introduction

[Spring Boot 3 is here; Where are you?](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1onKVe3tsCm9wPWMQ0i4fLDfM8vpQHyXH/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=106870370074198362402&rtpof=true&sd=true)

## Requirements

In complete our adventures, you will need some basic Spring and Git knowlege and:

* Java 17 and Java 8

* IDE of your choice, but Visual Studio Code for the Spring Tools Adventure. 

* GitHub account

## Getting started

Clone this Git repository and follow the desired adventures. 
```
git clone https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop
```

## Adventures

We recommend to follow the adventures in the described order, but it is just a recommendation, not a requirement.

* [Maven Plugin Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/maven-plugin-adventure)

* [Gradle Plugin Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/gradle-plugin-adventure)

* [Spring Boot Migrator Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/spring-boot-migrator-adventure)
 
* [Spring Tools Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/spring-tools-adventure)

* [Moderne Platform Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/moderne-platform-adventure)

* [Moderne CLI Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/moderne-cli-adventure)

Commit message:

Clean up all READMEs
My goal with this original pass through of the READMEs is to:

* Fix a variety of grammatical and spelling mistakes
* Improve the readibility of various sections
* Ensure links work correctly
* Make the adventures more consistent with one another

There are still many issues that I didn't address. For instance,
some of the adventures did not work for me when I ran through them
and some of the instructions linked to things that didn't appear to
exist.

I also didn't improve the steps themselves to break things down
further. More work will be needed in the future, but I wanted to
save these changes for now.

README.md, after:

# Springboot Migration Workshop

In this repository, you'll find a variety of "adventures" that demonstrate the
different ways you can automatically migrate or upgrade an application to Spring
Boot 3. The core technology behind each of these adventures is
[OpenRewrite](https://github.com/openrewrite/rewrite).

You do not need to complete all of these adventures. Instead, please pick the
ones that are more interesting or relevant to your needs.

Regardless of which adventure you pick, you will migrate an old version of the
[spring-petclinic](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/)
repository to Spring Boot 3.

## Introduction

[Spring Boot 3 is here; Where are you?](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1onKVe3tsCm9wPWMQ0i4fLDfM8vpQHyXH/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=106870370074198362402&rtpof=true&sd=true)

## Requirements

To complete our adventures, you will need:

* Some basic Spring and Git knowledge and:
* To be familiar with Java 8 and Java 17
* A GitHub account
* An IDE of your choice (although we recommend using [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for the Spring Tools Adventure)

## Getting started

Clone this Git repository and follow the desired adventures.

```
git clone https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop
```

## Adventures

* [Maven Plugin Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/maven-plugin-adventure)

* [Gradle Plugin Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/gradle-plugin-adventure)

* [Spring Boot Migrator Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/spring-boot-migrator-adventure)
 
* [Spring Tools Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/spring-tools-adventure)

* [Moderne Platform Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/moderne-platform-adventure)

* [Moderne CLI Adventure](https://github.com/moderneinc/springboot-migration-workshop/tree/main/moderne-cli-adventure)
