spring-tools-adventure/README.md, before:

# Spring Tools Adventure

In this adventure, we are going to migrate an old version
of a Spring (Maven) application to Spring Boot 3 using 
Visual Studio.

## Prepare your environment

- Install Visual Studio Code.
- Install Spring Tools 4 plugin from https://spring.io/tools
- Clone the Spring Petclinic repository, which is an Spring Boot
application example for demo purposes:

```
git clone https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic
```

Now, let's come back to the past where Spring 2.7 was used.

```
git checkout 9ecdc1111e3da388a750ace41a125287d9620534
```

## Migrate to Spring Boot 3 using Spring Tools 4 

Spring Tools 4 embeds OpenRewrite, and from Visual Studio, there is 
a limited number of OpenRewrite migrations that can be applied. This
is a very recent feature that it is only available for Maven projects.

To see the list of refactors available, you need to open the `pom.xml`
file. You will see two important options:

- Refactor Spring Boot project
- Upgrade Spring Boot version  

![Visual Studio Dialog](context-menu-options.png)

In this exercise, we will select `Upgrade Spring Boot Version`, then the
following dialog should appear:

![Migration options](migration-options.png)

Select `Migrate to Spring Boot 3.0`. Then a progress message will appear at 
the very bottom of Visual Studio Code. After the process finishes, the changes
has not been yet saved into disk and you might perceive that there are just few
changes applied.

Click on `File` > `Save All` and then you can easily preview the changes
in Git. 

```
git diff
```

Commit message:

Clean up all READMEs (#1)
* Clean up all READMEs

My goal with this original pass through of the READMEs is to:

* Fix a variety of grammatical and spelling mistakes
* Improve the readibility of various sections
* Ensure links work correctly
* Make the adventures more consistent with one another

There are still many issues that I didn't address. For instance,
some of the adventures did not work for me when I ran through them
and some of the instructions linked to things that didn't appear to
exist.

I also didn't improve the steps themselves to break things down
further. More work will be needed in the future, but I wanted to
save these changes for now.

* Fix typo in main README

* Consistent spring-petclinic

* Use relative links

---------

Co-authored-by: Mike Sol <mike-solomon@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tim te Beek <tim@moderne.io>

spring-tools-adventure/README.md, after:

# Spring Tools Adventure

In this adventure, we are going to migrate an old version
of a Spring (Maven) application to Spring Boot 3 using 
Visual Studio.

## Prepare your environment

1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

2. Install the [Spring Tools 4 plugin](https://spring.io/tools)

3. Clone the [Spring PetClinic
   repository](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic):

```shell
git clone https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic
```

4. Check out the last Spring Boot 2.0 commit:

```shell
git checkout 9ecdc1111e3da388a750ace41a125287d9620534
```

## Migrate to Spring Boot 3 using Spring Tools 4 

Spring Tools 4 has OpenRewrite embedded into it. From VS Code, you can open the
`pom.xml` file and right-click anywhere in the file. You should see two
important options appear:

* Refactor Spring Boot Project
* Upgrade Spring Boot Version

![Visual Studio Dialog](context-menu-options.png)

For this adventure, let's click on `Upgrade Spring Boot Version`. The following
dialog window should then appear: 

![Migration options](migration-options.png)

Select `Migrate to Spring Boot 3.0`. A progress message should appear at the
bottom of VS Code. After the process finishes, the changes won't be saved yet.
You'll need to click on `File` > `Save All` to save all of the files and preview
the changes in Git:

```shell
git diff
```

**Note:** This is a very recent feature that is only available for Maven
projects. Only some of the OpenRewrite migrations can be applied with this
feature.
